README.md, before:

# GitHub Avatars

A machine learning model to differentiate default GitHub avatars from custom ones.

| example default avatar | example custom avatar | 
| ------- | ------ |
| ![default](avatars/default/abrim.png) | ![custom](avatars/custom/zeke.png) |

## Approach

Create a color histogram for each image by reducing it to 8 bit (or 4 bit, or 3). Traditional learning models suffer from the "curse of dimensionality", wherein the higher the dimensionality, the harder to learn. (Not so for deep learning). 768 values (256 * 3) is actually quite a lot of dimensions for a small dataset. There is a connection between the size of dataset and inputs. For small datasets, one should use fewer inputs.

1. create a data pipeline that reads in images
1. input is image and a label (default or not)
1. output is a 24-valued histogram plus the label

## Implementation Notes

- Start with scikit-learn. Then maybe use torch.
- scikit-learn is easy to start. If it works, great! Otherwise we can switch to torch and use scikit-learn implementation as a baseline.
- It's easy to make bugs in torch
- It's harder to make bugs in scikit

## Running it

```
script/start
```

Jupyter will output a URL to visit in your browser.

---

### Notes, January 2022

Feature Engineering is a process of manually constructing features that suit that task at hand. Our current feature is a color histogram, counting the number of colors in each image. But we could also contruct features in a different way, for example coundting the number of unique colors in each image.

Feature engineering is common in traditional ML, but in deep learning the emphasis is more on the learning of the model itself, rather than the learning of the features. Specifically, finding the right model architecture. Feature engineering isn't really used any more.

Today we'll focus on understanding why the model makes the deicsions it makes, based on the features we've constructed, and hopefully improve our feature engineering step based on what we learn.

Commit message:

use counts of GitHub Grey and unique colors as feature

README.md, after:

# GitHub Avatars

A machine learning model to differentiate default GitHub avatars from custom ones.

| example default avatar | example custom avatar | 
| ------- | ------ |
| ![default](avatars/default/abrim.png) | ![custom](avatars/custom/zeke.png) |

## Approach (v1)

Create a color histogram for each image by reducing it to 8 bit (or 4 bit, or 3). Traditional learning models suffer from the "curse of dimensionality", wherein the higher the dimensionality, the harder to learn. (Not so for deep learning). 768 values (256 * 3) is actually quite a lot of dimensions for a small dataset. There is a connection between the size of dataset and inputs. For small datasets, one should use fewer inputs.

1. create a data pipeline that reads in images
1. input is image and a label (default or not)
1. output is a 24-valued histogram plus the label

## Approach (v2)

v1 was flawed, in our quantizing process caused the "github grey" color to be bucketed along with "white", leading to some custom avatars being misidentified as default avatars.

In this new version, we'll create a new feature vector using:

- the number of "GitHub grey" pixels in the image
- the number of distinct colors in the image

## Implementation Notes

- Start with scikit-learn. Then maybe use torch.
- scikit-learn is easy to start. If it works, great! Otherwise we can switch to torch and use scikit-learn implementation as a baseline.
- It's easy to make bugs in torch
- It's harder to make bugs in scikit

## Running it

```
script/start
```

Jupyter will output a URL to visit in your browser.

---

### Notes, January 2022

Feature Engineering is a process of manually constructing features that suit that task at hand. Our current feature is a color histogram, counting the number of colors in each image. But we could also contruct features in a different way, for example coundting the number of unique colors in each image.

Feature engineering is common in traditional ML, but in deep learning the emphasis is more on the learning of the model itself, rather than the learning of the features. Specifically, finding the right model architecture. Feature engineering isn't really used any more.

Today we'll focus on understanding why the model makes the deicsions it makes, based on the features we've constructed, and hopefully improve our feature engineering step based on what we learn.
